# 1975-03-05_Ursula_01
# SECTION_005
# March 5, 1975
# Ursula K. Le Guin
## concise_summary
Dick proposes to Le Guin that they are "twin outcomes" of a single underlying mystical experience. He outlines an eight-point cosmological schema involving "orthogonal time" (ontological time) versus "lineal time" (process time), claiming that a two-thousand-year "Winter" (2 B.C. to 1974 A.D.) has finally ended.
## key_claims
- Dick and Le Guin are both being "used" by a single underlying entity/drive.
- We are "dreamed" by an Active Dreamer who can retroactively manipulate reality.
- Lineal time is an accumulation that conceals "Orthogonal Time" (deep Being).
- The period from 200 B.C. to 1974 A.D. was a "Greater Winter" for humanity.
- We are currently in "half-life" (as in *Ubik*), slumbering like seeds under snow.
## recurring_concepts
- Dreaming / The Dreamer
- Orthogonal Time vs. Lineal Time
- Greater Year / Greater Winter
- Half-life (as ontological state)
- Anamnesis / Wachet auf!
- Retroactive manipulation of reality
## people_entities
- Ursula K. Le Guin (Recipient)
- Mr. Tagomi (Character)
- Ian Watson (Scholar)
- Fred Jameson (Scholar)
- Charles Tart (Psychologist)
- Robert Ornstein (Neuroscientist)
- Christ / Dionysos
## texts_works_referenced
- *The Lathe of Heaven* (Le Guin)
- Science Fiction Studies (SFS, March '75 issue)
- *Ubik* (PKD novel)
- *The Man in the High Castle* (implied by Tagomi)
- Taoism (Kan trigram)
- Cantata 4 / Cantata 140 (Bach)
## autobiographical_events
- Experience of "roll-back" of artifical reality in March 1974.
- Recent contact with Robert Ornstein's circle.
## theological_philosophical_motifs
- Neo-platonism (Veil of Maya)
- Orphism (Dionysos as moisture)
- Christian Final Days / Grace
- Neuroscience (Right hemisphere awakening)
## literary_self_reference
- Identifies the "half-life" in *Ubik* as an accurate representation of human dormancy.
- Groups his work with Le Guin's as products of the same "Dreamer."
## symbols_images_metaphors
- Winter/Snow (Accretions of lineal time)
- Springtime (Disclosure of ground of being)
- Slumbering seeds/roots (Human dormancy)
- Icy coffins (*Ubik* reference)
## tensions_contradictions
- The "Dreamer" is described as both building "false work" (enchantment) and performing acts of "God's Grace" through roll-back.
## evidence_quotes
- "We do not dream; we are dreamed."
- "The time period... from the Second Century B.C. to date is Winter."
- "The symbol of half-life in UBIK must be viewed as an accurate dramatic representation of our true state of Being."
## uncertainty_flags
- Uses the term "perhaps" when speculating on the Dreamer's motivations.
